Add wg naming language evaluation framework (#16)
inclusivenaming/website: content/evaluation-framework.md

---
title: "A framework for evaluating harmful language"
---

## About

> The language evaluation framework is a guidance document developed by the [Kubernetes Naming Working Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-naming). The version of this documentation found on the Inclusive Naming website is a mirror. 
> 
> It outlines a structured framework for evaluating language and terminology for harm to the community. This enables the community to navigate divisive conversations with a measure of clarity.
> 
> The framework was created for an open source technology project. The framework may be applicable to other fields as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The language evaluation framework is a guidance document developed by the [Kubernetes Naming Working Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-naming). It outlines a structured framework to evaluate language and terminology for harm to the community. This enables the community to navigate divisive conversations with a measure of clarity.

The framework was created for open source technology projecst. The framework may be applicable to other fields as well.

The version of this documentation found on the Inclusive Naming website is a mirror from the Kubernetes Naming Working Group.
```

## Using the framework

The framework is divided into three sections: first-, second-, and third-order concerns, ranked in order of potential harm to the community. 

First-order concerns are language where harm is egregious, overt, and clearly problematic. Second-order concerns are language which is problematic but with a less definite impact. Third-order concerns indicate language that could use improvement but does no demonstrable harm.

> Answer all questions for each term evaluated.

Reviewer: is part of this sentance missing?

Reviewer: or can this be explained in more detail?

When complete, consider questions answered in the affirmative: in general, the more questions answered “yes” or “possibly”, the more likely it is that the language in question needs to be replaced. 

If any first-order concerns are a “yes”, replace the language. 

If a significant number of second- or third- order concerns are a “yes”, strongly consider replacing the language. 

This framework is intentionally non-prescriptive. The intention in this work is to reduce harm for the community; let harm reduction guide your decisions.

### First-order concerns

First-order concerns are characterized by: 

> - Overtness: regardless of its use in the context of code or technology, there is little to no ambiguity outside of technology as to whether the language in question indicates harm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Overtness: regardless of its use in the context of code or technology, there is little to no ambiguity outside of technology as to whether the language in question causes harm
```

- Identity-specificity: language in question specifically unambiguously identifies a group of people

#### Is the term overtly racist?

Examples include “master/slave”.

#### Is the term overtly sexist, transphobic, or pejorative about a gender identity?

> 

Reviewer: can we add examples too?

Examples do _not_ include “transclusion” of dependencies, or “binary” operators. 

#### Is the term overtly ableist, or pejorative to neurodiverse or disabled people

Examples include performing “sanity checks”. 

#### Is the term overtly homophobic? 

> 

Reviewer: same as above
